now in New York the United Nations
General Assembly has voted
overwhelmingly for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire in
Gaza the Palestinian Envoy to the UN
called the vote an historic moment
Israel said a ceasefire would only
benefit Hamas to the detriment of gazans
though it's non-binding analysts say it
acts as a powerful measure of
international opinion 23 countries in
including the UK abstained Israel and
the United States are two of just 10
countries that voted against the
ceasefire President Biden earlier said
Israel was losing International support
because of what he called its
indiscriminate bombing of Gaza let's go
live to Jerusalem now and speak to our
correspondent yolan Nell good morning
yoland has there been any reaction there
to this so far this
morning I mean things already looked
very much like they were going in this
direction so we had a lot of strong
reaction in advance from um Israel's
Ambassador uh to the un uh from Israeli
officials um really insisting that you
know the world cannot tell Israel close
allies cannot tell Israel to go after
Hamas to dismantle it in Gaz on the one
hand and on the other hand call for a
ceasefire this has been the consistent
message from Israel in recent days but
it will be very aware that this is in
intense diplomatic pressure now and also
worrying for Israeli leaders to see uh
some of the the differing opinions that
are coming from uh the US its closest
Ally as well you know of course from the
very beginning the US President Joe
Biden he he arrived here soon after
those awful 7th of October attacks to
show solidarity with Israel um at the UN
Security Council it was Washington that
vetoed any attempt to get such a a
ceasefire resolution through just last
Friday Friday um but these remarks made
on the campaign Trail by uh President
Biden saying that um really Israel was
starting to lose International support
because of what he called indiscriminate
bombing that use of language um was very
strong and there's also been admission
from uh the Israeli Prime Minister there
have been differences of opinion we've
also had uh Mr Biden coming out saying
that Benjamin n Netanyahu must change
his Hardline government um and he must
ultimately accept Israel must ultimately
accept that it cannot say no he said to
an independent Palestinian state that is
something that hardliners in Israel's
government vehemently oppose okay thank
you so much Yan Nell in Jerusalem for us
well let's now talk to Jason Lee who is
country director at save the children in
occupied Palestinian territory Jason
thank you for being on the program um so
we were just discussing the outcome of
uh the United Nations uh latest
resolution there as it were but in terms
of what you're seeing and experiencing
on a day-to- byday basis in
Gaza they will not see a difference will
they fortunately no the situation is bad
and getting worse it is dire we have now
1.9 million people that's 85% of the
population that are homeless they're
displaced they have nowhere to sleep no
access to food to water to critical
health care that that they need and also
there are no sanitation facilities
available and half of them are children
the situation is getting worse every
single day every day that the world
Community does nothing nothing and sits
and waits the price is that children are
paying the price again this war is
disproportionately affecting
children the international pressure is
increasing on uh the Israelis but uh
prime minister Netanyahu says he will
continue with the military uh
campaign the thinking is they've got
weeks a window of weeks in order to
achieve what they trying to achieve but
I mean every day is such a long time
isn't it for for Gaza for the people who
are suffering
there children do not have weeks there
is no time it rained again last night
which means that there's so much
pressure on the camps that are set up
here the tents that there will be soon
overflooded there is no sanitation
facility the risk of a public health
outbreak chalera um we already seeing
jaund dislike symptoms appearing amongst
the population and especially with the
cold weather children are more
susceptible to pneumonia so children do
not have weeks yeah and and we
completely appreciate that so so what
talk us through what you're able to do
at save the children uh what Aid are you
able to get in who have you got on the
ground not enough we are not not able to
get enough Aid we are restricted by the
fact that the number of trucks coming in
is not sufficient to keep the 2.3
million people alive we do not have
enough Personnel humanit Personnel to
come in to actually reach those
populations in need and most of all we
do not have free movement throughout all
of the Gaza Strip there is not unfitted
access for humanitarians to do our job
we need to get to all areas of Gaza from
the north to canun to areas of the South
it is critical that we are allowed in my
own teams are displaced and
unfortunately on Monday night on Monday
morning sorry I lost one of my team
members his four children his wife and
30 members of his extended family
because of an air strike Jason I'm so
sorry to hear that that is so difficult
to have to handle on a day-to-day basis
and our thoughts are with you at save
the children thank you for being on the
program